Introducing dung1 beetles into a pasture is a simple process: approximately 1,500 beetles 
are released, a handful at a time, into fresh cow pats2 in the cow pasture. The beetles 
immediately disappear beneath the pats digging and tunnelling and, if they successfully 
adapt to their new environment, soon become a permanent, self-sustaining part of the 
local ecology. In time they multiply and within three or four years the benefits to the 
pasture are obvious. 
Dung beetles work from the inside of the pat so they are sheltered from predators such 
as birds and foxes. Most species burrow into the soil and bury dung in tunnels directly 
underneath the pats, which are hollowed out from within. Some large species originating 
from France excavate tunnels to a depth of approximately 30 cm below the dung pat. 
These beetles make sausage-shaped brood chambers along the tunnels. The shallowest 
tunnels belong to a much smaller Spanish species that buries dung in chambers that hang 
like fruit from the branches of a pear tree. South African beetles dig narrow tunnels of 
approximately 20 cm below the surface of the pat. Some surface-dwelling beetles, 
including a South African species, cut perfectly-shaped balls from the pat, which are 
rolled away and attached to the bases of plants. 
For maximum dung burial in spring, summer and autumn, farmers require a variety of 
species with overlapping periods of activity. In the cooler environments of the state of 
Victoria, the large French species (2.5 cms long), is matched with smaller (half this size), 
temperate-climate Spanish species. The former are slow to recover from the winter cold 
and produce only one or two generations of offspring from late spring until autumn. The 
latter, which multiply rapidly in early spring, produce two to five generations annually. 
The South African ball-rolling species, being a sub-tropical beetle, prefers the climate of 
northern and coastal New South Wales where it commonly works with the South 
African tunneling species. In warmer climates, many species are active for longer periods 
of the year.


#questions
Species:French,Spanish,South African 
Size:2.5 cm,1.25 cm, None
Preferred climate: cool, 1............ ,2............
Complementary species: Spanish, None, 3………...

#answers
1 temperate 
2 early spring
3 two to five / 2-5
12 sub-tropical
13 South African tunneling/tunnelling