The instructions accompanying do-it-yourself products are regularly cited as a source
of unnecessary expense or frustration. Few companies seem to test their instructions
by having them followed by a first-time user. Often, essential information is omitted,
steps in the construction process are taken for granted, and some degree of special
knowledge is assumed. This is especially worrying in any fields where failure to
follow correct procedures can be dangerous.
Objections to material in plain English have come mainly from the legal profession.
Lawyers point to the risk of ambiguity inherent in the use of everyday language for
legal or official documents, and draw attention to the need for confidence in legal
formulations, which can come only from using language that has been tested in
courts over the course of centuries. The campaigners point out that there has been
no sudden increase in litigation as a consequence of the increase in plain English
materials.
Similarly, professionals in several different fields have defended their use of technical
and complex language as being the most precise means of expressing technical or
complex ideas. This is undoubtedly true: scientists, doctors, bankers and others need
their jargon in order to communicate with each other succinctly and unambiguously.
But when it comes to addressing the non-specialist consumer, the campaigners
argue, different criteria must apply.

#questions
Consumers often complain that they experience a feeling of 1................ when trying to put
together do-it-yourself products which have not been tested by companies on a 2 ………… .
In situations where not keeping to the correct procedures could affect safety issues, it is
especially important that 3................information is not left out and no assumptions are made
about a stage being self-evident or the consumer having a certain amount of 4 ………… .
Lawyers, however, have raised objections to the use of plain English. They feel that it would
result in ambiguity in documents and cause people to lose faith in 5............... , as it would
mean departing from language that has been used in the courts for a very long time.

#answers
1 frustration
2 first-time user
3 essential
4 special knowledge
5 legal formulations