No treatment on the market today has been proved to slow human aging. But one 
intervention, consumption of a low-calorie∗ yet nutritionally balanced diet, works incredibly 
well in a broad range of animals, increasing longevity and prolonging good health. Those 
findings suggest that caloric restriction could delay aging and increase longevity in humans, 
too. But what if someone could create a pill that mimicked the physiological effects of eating 
less without actually forcing people to eat less, a 'caloric-restriction mimetic'? 
The best-studied candidate for a caloric-restriction mimetic, 2DG (2-deoxy-D-glucose), works 
by interfering with the way cells process glucose. It has proved toxic at some doses in animals 
and so cannot be used in humans. But it has demonstrated that chemicals can replicate the 
effects of caloric restriction; the trick is finding the right one. 
Cells use the glucose from food to generate ATP (adenosine triphosphate), the molecule that 
powers many activities in the body. By limiting food intake, caloric restriction minimizes the 
amount of glucose entering cells and decreases ATP generation. When 2DG is administered 
to animals that eat normally, glucose reaches cells in abundance but the drug prevents most 
of it from being processed and thus reduces ATP synthesis. Researchers have proposed 
several explanations for why interruption of glucose processing and ATP production might 
retard aging. One possibility relates to the ATP-making machinery’s emission of free 
radicals, which are thought to contribute to aging and to such age-related diseases as cancer 
by damaging cells. Reduced operation of the machinery should limit their production and 
thereby constrain the damage. Another hypothesis suggests that decreased processing of 
glucose could indicate to cells that food is scarce (even if it isn’t) and induce them to shift into 
an anti-aging mode that emphasizes preservation of the organism over such ‘luxuries’ as 
growth and reproduction.

#questions
How a caloric-restriction mimetic works
CR mimetic less 1................is processed production of ATP is decreased
cells less damaged by disease because fewer 2...............are emitted
cells focus on 3................because food is in short supply

#answers
1 glucose
2 free radicals
3 preservation